# Neovim - My Config & Some Thoughts

This is my current configuration, and there's still much to be done. I've gone through several re-writes, most of which I haven't actually kept up to date with this repository. I'm currently in the middle of another re-write. I'm focused on a balance between minimalism and modernity; my first few config were quite bloated, then I focused excessively on speed, doing everything to shave off a few milliseconds, creating very unmaintainable code in the process. 

Although, I'm starting to appreciate the value of minimalism, asking myself "Do I _really_ need this? How much value does it add to my experience?" -- of course, I think that finding **comfort** in your editor is important, although, too much clutter only gives the illusion of it, one broken once you're on a different machine and are forced to use a clean configuration, or just pass `--clean` to `nvim` in order to debug your config.. you end up learning more about what you _do_ have, and jetpacks turn to crutches, as you realize a lot of what you enjoy was already there. 

I also think there is value in not defaulting to plugins when you want certain functionality. It's worth asking if implementing it yourself would really be as much of a hassle as you probably imagine it would be, and at the very least assess the problem, give it some thought, browse through help tags, and look at how the plugin you intend on installing actually implemented what you want. It might not actually be that time consuming as you think, especially once you get to the core of what it is you want from that plugin. A plugin will invariably contain more than what you can't omit, because a plugin is designed for the `user`, not you. That doesn't exclusively refer to the functionality you can actually perceive and interact with, but also the code that exists purely for (back/or cross)compatibility, flags and functions that never get called, autocmds and handlers that never apply to you, as well as code purely related to the aesthetics of a plugin, which you might not even particularly like that much anyway, and you'd be better off without.

Just as with programming itself, the more you challenge yourself to go beyond your comfort zone, the more natural it feels, and what was once a foggy blur of undefined question marks becomes surprisingly simple, and the more you make that experience, the more confident you become in tackling problems full of unfamiliar challenges or concepts, because you've done it plenty before, and know you can do it again. I don't think this is an unfamiliar experience if you're a programmer; Neovim is no different, and just think about what you already have gained by learning the surface of it, even just Vim motions, and how much more to the iceberg there is if you treat your editor like you would treat a project, rather than relegating it to a means to an end.
